Adds search documentation (#1752)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _opensearch/search/paginate.md

---
layout: default
title: Paginate results
parent: Searching data
nav_order: 21
---

## Paginate results

You can use the following ways to paginate search results in OpenSearch: 

1. The [`from` and `size` parameters](#the-from-and-size-parameters).

> 1. [Scroll search](#scroll-search).

Reviewer: Is Scroll Search a parameter?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The [scroll search](#scroll-search) operation.
```

Author: It uses the `scroll` query parameter.

1. The [`search_after` parameter](#the-search_after-parameter).

## The `from` and `size` parameters

The `from` and `size` parameters return results to your users one page at a time.

The `from` parameter is the document number that you want to start showing the results from. The `size` parameter is the number of results that you want to show. Together, they let you return a subset of the search results.

For example, if the value of `size` is 10 and the value of `from` is 0, you see the first 10 results. If you change the value of `from` to 10, you see the next 10 results (because the results are zero-indexed). So, if you want to see results starting from result 11, `from` must be 10.

```json
GET shakespeare/_search
{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "play_name": "Hamlet"
    }
  }
}
```

Use the following formula to calculate the `from` parameter relative to the page number:

```json
from = size * (page_number - 1)
```

Each time the user chooses the next page of the results, your application needs to make the same search query with an incremented `from` value.

> You can also specify the `from` and `size` parameters in the search URI:

Author: The URI is a more general term (i.e. URL is a subset or URI), so I think it's fine to leave as-is.

```json
GET shakespeare/_search?from=0&size=10
```

If you only specify the `size` parameter, the `from` parameter defaults to 0.

Querying for pages deep in your results can have a significant performance impact, so OpenSearch limits this approach to 10,000 results.

The `from` and `size` parameters are stateless, so the results are based on the latest available data.
This can cause inconsistent pagination.

> For example, assume a user stays on the first page of the results for a minute and then navigates to the second page; in that time, a new document is indexed in the background which is relevant enough to show up on the first page. In this scenario, the last result of the first page is pushed to the second page, so the user ends up seeing a result on the second page that they already saw on the first page.

Author: Reworded.

Use the `scroll` operation for consistent pagination. The `scroll` operation keeps a search context open for a certain period of time. Any data changes do not affect the results during this time.

## Scroll search

The `from` and `size` parameters allow you to paginate your search results, but with a limit of 10,000 results at a time.

> If you need to request massive volumes of data from, for example, a machine learning job, use the `scroll` operation instead. The `scroll` operation allows you to request an unlimited number of results.

Reviewer 2: What is considered "massive volumes of data?" 1 million records? 1PB? I recommend clarifying.

Author: @Naarcha-AWS - do you have any suggestions on how to clarify here?

Reviewer: I would say 1PB, because Scroll operates in a similar way to a data stream.

> If you need to request volumes of data larger than 1PB from, for example, a machine learning job, use the `scroll` operation instead. The `scroll` operation allows you to request an unlimited number of results.

Reviewer 3: Include a space between the number and the abbreviation for the unit of measure.

> To use the scroll operation, add a `scroll` parameter to the request header with a search context to tell OpenSearch how long you need to keep scrolling. This search context needs to be long enough to process a single batch of results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the scroll operation, add a `scroll` parameter to the request header with a search context telling OpenSearch for how long you need to keep scrolling. This search context needs to be long enough to process a single batch of results.
```

To set the number of results that you want returned for each batch, use the `size` parameter:

```json
GET shakespeare/_search?scroll=10m
{
  "size": 10000
}
```

OpenSearch caches the results and returns a scroll ID to access them in batches:

```json
"_scroll_id" : "DXF1ZXJ5QW5kRmV0Y2gBAAAAAAAAAAUWdmpUZDhnRFBUcWFtV21nMmFwUGJEQQ=="
```

> Pass this scroll ID to the `scroll` operation to get back the next batch of results:

Author: Changed to "obtain"

```json
GET _search/scroll
{
  "scroll": "10m",
  "scroll_id": "DXF1ZXJ5QW5kRmV0Y2gBAAAAAAAAAAUWdmpUZDhnRFBUcWFtV21nMmFwUGJEQQ=="
}
```

Using this scroll ID, you get results in batches of 10,000 as long as the search context is still open. Typically, the scroll ID does not change between requests, but it *can* change, so make sure to always use the latest scroll ID. If you don't send the next scroll request within the set search context, the `scroll` operation does not return any results.

If you expect billions of results, use a sliced scroll. Slicing allows you to perform multiple scroll operations for the same request, but in parallel.
Set the ID and the maximum number of slices for the scroll:

```json
GET shakespeare/_search?scroll=10m
{
  "slice": {
    "id": 0,
    "max": 10
  },
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  }
}
```

> With a single scroll ID, you get back 10 results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With a single scroll ID, you receive 10 results.
```

You can have up to 10 IDs.
Perform the same command with ID equal to 1:

```json
GET shakespeare/_search?scroll=10m
{
  "slice": {
    "id": 1,
    "max": 10
  },
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  }
}
```

> Close the search context when you’re done scrolling, because it continues to consume computing resources until the timeout:

Reviewer 2: Change "because" to "as"

```json
DELETE _search/scroll/DXF1ZXJ5QW5kRmV0Y2gBAAAAAAAAAAcWdmpUZDhnRFBUcWFtV21nMmFwUGJEQQ==
```

#### Sample Response

```json
{
  "succeeded": true,
  "num_freed": 1
}
```

Use the following request to close all open scroll contexts:

```json
DELETE _search/scroll/_all
```

The `scroll` operation corresponds to a specific timestamp. It doesn't consider documents added after that timestamp as potential results.

> Because open search contexts consume a lot of memory, we suggest you don't use the `scroll` operation for frequent user queries that don't need the search context open. Instead, use the `sort` parameter with the `search_after` parameter to scroll responses for user queries.

Reviewer 3: "to scroll responses for user queries" reads a bit ambiguously to me. Can we be a bit clearer?

## The `search_after` parameter

The `search_after` parameter provides a live cursor to use the previous page's results to obtain the next page's results. It is similar to the `scroll` operation in that it is meant to scroll many queries in parallel. 

> For example, the following query sorts all lines from the play "Hamlet" by the speech number and then the ID, and retrieves the first three results:

Reviewer 2: Suggested rewrite: "...by speech number, then ID and retrieves..."

          "play_name" : "Hamlet",
          "speech_number" : 1,
          "line_number" : "1.1.1",
          "speaker" : "BERNARDO",
          "text_entry" : "Whos there?"
        },
        "sort" : [
          1,
          "32435"
        ]
      },
      {
        "_index" : "shakespeare",
        "_id" : "32634",
        "_score" : null,
        "_source" : {
          "type" : "line",
          "line_id" : 32635,
          "play_name" : "Hamlet",
          "speech_number" : 1,
          "line_number" : "1.2.1",
          "speaker" : "KING CLAUDIUS",
          "text_entry" : "Though yet of Hamlet our dear brothers death"
        },
        "sort" : [
          1,
          "32634"
        ]
      },
      {
        "_index" : "shakespeare",
        "_id" : "32635",
        "_score" : null,
        "_source" : {
          "type" : "line",
          "line_id" : 32636,
          "play_name" : "Hamlet",
          "speech_number" : 1,
          "line_number" : "1.2.2",
          "speaker" : "KING CLAUDIUS",
          "text_entry" : "The memory be green, and that it us befitted"
        },
        "sort" : [
          1,
          "32635"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> You can use the last result's `sort` values to retrieve the next result using the `search_after` parameter:

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: "...retrieve the next result **by** using..."
